@document.meta
title: README
description:
authors: takuto
categories:
created: 2023-11-14
updated: 2023-11-14T01:17:18+0900
version: 1.1.1
@end

@embed html
<div align="center">
  <h1>🐍 pathlib.nvim</h1>
  <p>
    <strong>
      OS Independent, ultimate solution to path handling in neovim.
    </strong>
  </p>
</div>
@end

* 🐍 `pathlib.nvim`
  This plugin aims to decrease the difficulties of path management across mutliple OSs in neovim.
  The plugin API is heavily inspired by Python's `pathlib.Path` with tweaks to fit neovim usage.
  It is mainly used in {https://github.com/nvim-neo-tree/neo-tree.nvim}[neo-tree.nvim]
  but it is very simple and portable to be used in any plugin.

  ❗ *This is still very WIP. Will be available in February at the earliest.*

  {https://neovim.io/}[!{https://img.shields.io/badge/NeoVim-%2357A143.svg?&style=for-the-badge&logo=neovim&logoColor=white}[Neovim]]
  {https://www.lua.org/}[!{https://img.shields.io/badge/lua-%232C2D72.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=lua&logoColor=white}[Lua]]

  {https://github.com/pysan3/pathlib.nvim/blob/master/LICENSE}[!{https://img.shields.io/github/license/pysan3/pathlib.nvim.svg?style=for-the-badge}[MLP-2.0]]
  {https://github.com/pysan3/pathlib.nvim/issues}[!{https://img.shields.io/github/issues/pysan3/pathlib.nvim.svg?style=for-the-badge}[Issues]]
  {https://github.com/pysan3/pathlib.nvim/actions/workflows/lua_ls-typecheck.yml}[!{https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/pysan3/pathlib.nvim/lua_ls-typecheck.yml?style=for-the-badge}[Build Status]]
  {https://luarocks.org/modules/pysan3/pathlib.nvim}[!{https://img.shields.io/luarocks/v/pysan3/pathlib.nvim?logo=lua&color=purple&style=for-the-badge}[LuaRocks]]

* Usage Example
** Create Path Object
  @code lua
  local Path = require("pathlib.base")

  -- Use __div to chain file tree!
  local cwd     = Path.cwd()
  local folder  =      cwd / "folder"
  local foo     =             folder / "foo.txt"
  assert(tostring(foo)          == "folder/foo.txt") -- $PWD/folder/foo.txt
  assert(tostring(foo:parent()) == "folder")

  -- Path object is comparable
  assert(foo                    == Path("./folder/foo.txt")) -- Path object can be created with arguments
  assert(foo                    == Path(folder, "foo.txt"))  -- Unpack any of them if you want!

  -- Create siblings (just like `./<foo>/../bar.txt`)
  local bar = foo .. "bar.txt"
  assert(tostring(bar)          == "folder/bar.txt")
  @end

** Create and Manipulate Files / Directories
   @code lua
   local luv = vim.loop
   local Path = require("pathlib.base")

   -- Create new folder
   local new_file = Path.new("./new/folder/foo.txt")
   new_file:parent():mkdir(Path.permission("rwxr-xr-x"), true) -- (permission, recursive)

   -- Create new file and write to it
   local fd, err_name, err_msg = new_file:fs_open("w", Path.permission("rw-r--r--"), true)
   assert(fd ~= nil, "File creation failed. " .. err_name .. err_msg)
   luv.fs_write(fd, "File Content\n")
   luv.fs_close(fd)

   -- SHORTHAND: read file content with `io.read`
   local content = new_file:io_read()
   assert(content == "File Content\n")

   -- SHORTHAND: write to file
   new_file:io_write("File Content\n")

   new_file:copy(new_file .. "bar.txt") -- copy `foo.txt` to `bar.txt`
   new_file:symlink_to(new_file .. "baz.txt") -- create symlink of `foo.txt` named `baz.txt`
   @end

** Scan Directories
   @code lua
   -- Continue from above
   for path in new_file:parent():iterdir() do
     -- loop: [Path("./new/folder/foo.txt"), Path("./new/folder/bar.txt"), Path("./new/folder/baz.txt")]
   end

   -- fs_scandir-like usage for async scan
   new_file:parent():iterdir_async(function(path, fs_type) -- callback on all files
       vim.print(tostring(path), fs_type)
   end, function(error) -- on error
       vim.print("Error: " .. error)
   end, function(count) -- on exit
       vim.print("Scan Finished. " .. count .. " files found.")
   end)
   @end

* TODO
  - API documentation
  - Windows implementation, test environment.

* Contributions
  I am not thinking of merging any PRs yet but feel free to give me your opinions with an issue.

* Other Projects
  - Python `pathlib`
  -- {https://docs.python.org/3/library/pathlib.html}
